so now what we're going to take off is
the rest of this "Aitch" bone or this hip bone
with this hip bone it is going to be connected in
a ball and socket joint with the femur bone so the
socket will be in the hip bone and half of the the
femur will have a ball right inside that socket
and there is a very strong tendon inside that ball
and socket joint that is holding this together
so my first step is to loosen
the first inch of this hip bone
so we can start getting underneath it
it's very important when you're boning
as you can tell my grip you'll see it will often
change with my boning knife in this case here
a lot of the pressure I'm putting on my the face
of my knife towards the bone and that's how I stay
very close to this particular bone now if my knife
slips it's very dangerous because it's going to
be coming straight for me traditionally what
what butchers will do is they will take a steel
and they will put it inside this hip bone there is
a hole right here and this is how I remove
my fingers from this particular situation
there is my ball and socket joint
now that I'm down to this
point I can remove my steel
because my fingers are going to be clearly out
of the way and I'm going to continue to follow
these bones all the way up
there is our hip bone